separate methods and quantitative analysis (#222)
AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-manuscript: content/06.methods.md

After collapsing gene identifiers, there were a total of 46,400 unique expressed genes in the poly-A dataset and a total of 53,011 unique expressed genes remaining in the stranded dataset.
More detail can be found in the [`collapse-rnaseq` analysis module](https://github.com/AlexsLemonade/OpenPBTA-analysis/tree/master/analyses/collapse-rnaseq).

##### Gene fusion detection

> We set up [Arriba v1.1.0](https://github.com/suhrig/arriba/) and STAR-Fusion 1.5.0 [@doi:10.1101/120295] fusion detection tools using CWL on CAVATICA.

Reviewer: I think we'll end up removing versions from main text in favor of the key resources table, but this is fine for now.

> For both these tools we used aligned BAM and chimeric SAM files from STAR as inputs and GRCh38_gencode_v27 GTF for gene annotation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For both these tools, we used aligned BAM and chimeric SAM files from STAR as inputs and GRCh38_gencode_v27 GTF for gene annotation.
```

On your end, confirm this should indeed say STAR and not STAR-fusion (i'm assuming what you have is right since STAR-fusion comes next!)

Author: yes, it's correct!

This score was defined as the $I\times -\log_{10}(P)$ where $I$ is 1 when the odds ratio is > 1 (indicating co-occurrence), and -1 when the odds ratio is < 1 (indicating mutual exclusivity), with $P$ defined by  Fisher's Exact Test.

##### Focal Copy Number Calling

We added the ploidy inferred via Control-FREEC to the consensus CNV segmentation file and used the ploidy and copy number values to define gain and loss values broadly at the chromosome level.
We used bedtools coverage [@url:https://bedtools.readthedocs.io/en/latest/content/tools/coverage.html; @doi:10.1093/bioinformatics/btq033] to add cytoband status using the UCSC cytoband file [@url:http://hgdownload.cse.ucsc.edu/goldenpath/hg38/database/cytoBand.txt.gz; @doi:10.1093/nar/gks1048].
The output status call fractions, which are values of the loss, gain and callable fractions of each cytoband region, were used to define dominant status at the cytoband-level.
The weighted means of each status call fraction were calculated using band length.
We used the weighted means to define the dominant status at the chromosome arm-level.

> A status is considered dominant if more than half of the region was callable and the status call fraction was greater than 0.9 for that region.

Reviewer: We also want to be explicit if this is >0.9 or >=0.9

> A status is considered dominant if more than half of the region was callable and the status call fraction was greater than 0.9 for that region.

Author: ok - this actually may need to be changed to 50%, based on something that was done after this was written, but I will file an issue to investigate this and leave it for now

The 0.9 threshold was chosen to ensure that the dominant status fraction call is greater than the remaining status fraction calls in a region.

We also wanted to define focal copy number units to avoid calling adjacent genes in the same cytoband or arm as copy number losses or gains where it would be more appropriate to call the broader region a loss or gain.
For the determination of the most focal units, we first considered the dominant status calls at the chromosome arm-level.
If the chromosome arm dominant status was not clearly defined as a gain or loss (and was callable) we looked to include the cytoband-level status call.

> Similarly, if a cytoband dominant status call was not clearly defined as a gain or loss (and was callable) we looked to include the gene-level status call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Similarly, if a cytoband dominant status call was callable but not clearly defined as a gain or loss, we instead included gene-level status call.
```

> To obtain the gene-level data, we used the mergeByOverlaps function [@url:https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/IRanges/versions/2.6.1/topics/findOverlaps-methods] from the IRanges package [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003118] to find overlaps between the segments in the consensus CNV file and the exons in the GENCODE v27 annotation file [@url:https://www.gencodegenes.org/human/release_27.html].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To obtain the gene-level data, we used the mergeByOverlaps function [@url:https://www.rdocumentation.org/packages/IRanges/versions/2.6.1/topics/findOverlaps-methods] from the IRanges package in R [@doi:10.1371/journal.pcbi.1003118] to find overlaps between the segments in the consensus CNV file and the exons in the GENCODE v27 annotation file [@url:https://www.gencodegenes.org/human/release_27.html].
```

If the copy number value was 0, we set the status to "deep deletion". 

> For autosomes only, we set the status to "amplification" when the copy number value is greater than two times the ploidy value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For autosomes only, we set the status to "amplification" when the copy number value was greater than two times the ploidy value.
```
tense
